README.md, before:

Secrets is a system for safely storing and sharing passwords amongst a team

# Goals

1. Trustless. You don't have to trust the server. Users only need to trust each other.
2. End to end encryption. The server never sees the passwords in plaintext
3. Revocability. If everyone goes through Secrets, you have a good record of who knows what passwords. That means that your team can let someone go and know what password they have to rotate.
4. Rotation hygiene. Similar to revocability, you can easily rotate passwords on a schedule without disrupting everyone

See more in [DESIGN.md](DESIGN.md)

# Dependencies

* [libsodium](https://download.libsodium.org/doc/installation/)
* [openssl](https://www.openssl.org/)
* [sqlite](https://www.sqlite.org/)

# Example basic usage:

* `secrets create my-bank`: create a new service and set the new password for it
* `secrets get my-bank`: get the secret
* `secrets grant my-bank --grantee=federico`: give federico access to my-bank
* `secrets rotate my-bank --withhold=federico`: take my-bank away from federico by setting a new one (you'll have to change it with my-bank.com and you'll be prompted for the new value)
* `secrets list --mine`: show what services you hold grants for

# Quickstart (vagrant)

The best way to try it out without committing to anything

* install [vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/) and [git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git)
* `git clone https://github.com/ketralnis/secrets && cd secrets`
* `vagrant up`
* `vagrant ssh`
* `secrets get sooper-sekrit` (the default password is `password`)

# Quickstart (development)

The best way to develop on secrets

* Install libsodium, openssl, git, rust, and cargo
* Set it up:

```sh
# build it
git clone https://github.com/ketralnis/secrets && cd secrets
cargo test
cargo build
export PATH=$PATH:$(pwd)/target/debug

# set up the server
secrets-server -d ./server.db init -n $(hostname)
secrets-server -d ./server.db server &

# set up a client
secrets -d ./leeroy-jenkins.db join -u leeroy-jenkins -h $(hostname):4430 > leeroy-jenkins.request
secrets-server -d ./server.db accept-join leeroy-jenkins.request

# set up an example secret value...
secrets -d ./leeroy-jenkins.db create sooper-sekret
# ...and fetch it
secrets -d ./leeroy-jenkins.db get sooper-sekret
```

## cleanup

* `rm -i server.db ~/.secrets-client.db leeroy-jenkins.db leeroy-jenkins.request`

Commit message:

Add a warning about malicious servers being possible atm

README.md, after:

Secrets is a system for safely storing and sharing passwords amongst a team

# Goals

1. Trustless. You don't have to trust the server. Users only need to trust each other.
2. End to end encryption. The server never sees the passwords in plaintext
3. Revocability. If everyone goes through Secrets, you have a good record of who knows what passwords. That means that your team can let someone go and know what password they have to rotate.
4. Rotation hygiene. Similar to revocability, you can easily rotate passwords on a schedule without disrupting everyone

See more in [DESIGN.md](DESIGN.md)

# A note on development state:

If your threat model doesn't include a compromised or malicious server, Secrets does what it says on the tin and is probably ready to use (barring what's probably a host of missing features that you may want. Feedback and especailly patches are welcome!).

Withstanding a malicious server is an explicit goal, but secrets is currently missing some planned features to make that possible. In particular, an attacker with ongoing read/write access to the server's database file could insert their own public key in place of an existing users' and then wait around for you to encrypt something to their key. Since the server never sees plaintext, read-only access to the database shouldn't itself compromise the content of any secret data.

See [TODO.md](TODO.md)

# Dependencies

* [libsodium](https://download.libsodium.org/doc/installation/)
* [openssl](https://www.openssl.org/)
* [sqlite](https://www.sqlite.org/)

# Example basic usage:

* `secrets create my-bank`: create a new service and set the new password for it
* `secrets get my-bank`: get the secret
* `secrets grant my-bank --grantee=federico`: give federico access to my-bank
* `secrets rotate my-bank --withhold=federico`: take my-bank away from federico by setting a new one (you'll have to change it with my-bank.com and you'll be prompted for the new value)
* `secrets list --mine`: show what services you hold grants for

# Quickstart (vagrant)

The best way to try it out without committing to anything

* install [vagrant](https://www.vagrantup.com/) and [git](https://git-scm.com/book/en/v2/Getting-Started-Installing-Git)
* `git clone https://github.com/ketralnis/secrets && cd secrets`
* `vagrant up`
* `vagrant ssh`
* `secrets get sooper-sekrit` (the default password is `password`)

# Quickstart (development)

The best way to develop on secrets

* Install libsodium, openssl, git, rust, and cargo
* Set it up:

```sh
# build it
git clone https://github.com/ketralnis/secrets && cd secrets
cargo test
cargo build
export PATH=$PATH:$(pwd)/target/debug

# set up the server
secrets-server -d ./server.db init -n $(hostname)
secrets-server -d ./server.db server &

# set up a client
secrets -d ./leeroy-jenkins.db join -u leeroy-jenkins -h $(hostname):4430 > leeroy-jenkins.request
secrets-server -d ./server.db accept-join leeroy-jenkins.request

# set up an example secret value...
secrets -d ./leeroy-jenkins.db create sooper-sekret
# ...and fetch it
secrets -d ./leeroy-jenkins.db get sooper-sekret
```

## cleanup

* `rm -i server.db ~/.secrets-client.db leeroy-jenkins.db leeroy-jenkins.request`
